Double click on a dataset in the Datasets pane to edit it in the Data Editor.
Apply a filter to remove unwanted data using the User-defined Variables and Filters window (found via the Data Editor).
Define a new variable from the User-defined Variables and Filters window (found via the Data Editor).
Group data by changing Test Groupings (found via the Data Editor).
You can load data from Excel, concerto and MATLAB files in the Data Editor.
You can load data from the Workspace using the Data Editor.
You can merge data from different files into one dataset using the Data Editor.
You can save a test plan (including designs and response models) as a new template - click the ‘Make Template’ button in the toolbar or use the Test Plan menu.
Double click on a test plan in the Test Plans list to open it - similarly double-clicking on any item in this node-dependent  'child list' pane changes the view to that node.
Double click or right click on input and model blocks in the Test Plan diagram to set up models and input factors.
Right click on model blocks in the Test Plan diagram to open the Design Editor and design an experiment or view an existing design.
Try the right click menu on the plots in the Design Editor - you can split the screen to see several different views of your design at once as you work on it (for example: an ANOVA table, a 3D plot of constraints and a 2D plot of design points).
The Data Editor can produce a custom Excel file for data input, and can then load that data.
Right click on data points in plots to see a figure plot of the test they are derived from (at global level).
Shift-click or middle-click and drag to zoom in on plots (at global or local level). Double click to return to full size.
Set limits for outlier selection - choose Outliers -> Selection Criteria (at global or local level).
You can use a custom m-file to set outlier selection criteria (in the Outliers menu at global and local level).
You can remove an entire test from a two stage model at the local level - choose the menu item Outliers -> Remove All Data.
Add new child nodes to the current model selected by clicking the New button. Use the Select... button to compare different child nodes and choose the best.
Choose Model -> Evaluate to view a model without data, with new data or with current data.
Choose Select... to view models in many graphical forms.
Make a movie (in the Model Selection window) to view a two-factor model surface changing with reference to a third factor.
Change tolerances in the cross section view (Model Selection window) to see data points near the selected model cross-sections.
For linear models, use Min PRESS in the Stepwise dialog to see how throwing away some model terms can improve the predictive ability of your model.
For radial basis function models, use the ‘Prune’ function to see how reducing the number of centers can improve the predictive ability of your model.
For free knot spline models, choose Build Models to construct a whole family of models, with differing numbers of knots, to find the best solution.
One stage models must have ‘one test per record’ data - set this in the Test Groupings dialog (found via the Data Editor).
Choose File -> Preferences to set default directories for finding data files, projects, templates and models.
Saving a project saves all test plans and models within that project. To selectively save specific models only, choose Model -> Export from different model nodes, and use the Export Preview to check which models you are saving.
Try using the Delete and Insert keys wherever you can select items in a listview (such as the Test Plans pane) - you can remove and add new items (test plans, datasets, notes, models, variables and filters).
To rename items, select-click or click and press F2 (as in selecting to rename in Windows Explorer). This applies to datasets, notes, variables, filters and storage objects. The project node, test plans and models can only be renamed in this way in the model tree (All Models pane).
